bonus yen I have gotten a couple
questions on one the medication that I'm
on and two because we are considering
having another baby
would I stay on that medication during
my pregnancy or would I get off of it
I'm on Prozac and I am breastfeeding
being on it that was something that I
kind of was I debated I went back and
forth but it came down to I need to feel
the best that I can for my kids and Jude
nurses and for me personally I felt okay
given what I had read what I've reviewed
online like researched I felt okay I
felt all right with him nursing with me
being on Prozac you know I didn't think
anything was wrong with me I just
thought it was a [ __ ] no and lazy right
but this was different I felt incredibly
sad the only thing the only thing I can
compare it to is I don't know if I
should say this but coming off of a
certain drug a certain recreational drug
that I took when I was much younger and
coming down from that was intense like I
felt like wow I'm never gonna be happy
again and that's what this was like I
just felt like I'm never I'm never gonna
be happy again I'm my relationship with
my partner is ruined and I regretted
having my child the second half of that
is will I get off of the medication
before I have another baby so if I get
pregnant again or before and my answers
of that is most likely No
[Music]
ìletís yen the truth is that in 2018
the truth doesn't count for much the
truth doesn't matter people what matters
in the year 2018 is being on brand and
on message you you mark my words so in
the epic clash between Ellen Fisher full
time Hawaiian fruit-based mom and
unnatural vegan professional skeptic
internet science check and now
stay-at-home mom what matters isn't
who's right news wrong
what matters is who's speaking on brand
and who's speaking on message
so when unnatural vegan comes out with a
claim like oh it's just it's just not
possible to be getting enough protein
from whole-wheat pasta in a cashew and
butternut sauce it's just it's just not
possible she didn't take the time to go
to chronometer and we can put the
numbers and figure out how many grams of
protein were in the fruit smoothie and
in the past no no no doesn't matter
doesn't matter what she represents her
brand in her message is what matters
what matters is that she represents the
type of person who would look up
scientific peer-reviewed articles and
present you with with facts and research
even though she doesn't actually do this
herself I can't remember the last time
she actually did research or challenged
her own assumptions or beliefs on
anything since she proved to all of us
that artificial sweeteners and coffee
are a UH I don't know an excusable vais
compared to alcohol cocaine or what
anyone's gets with and you know what the
sad part is that Swasey a natural vegan
is out here trying to prove to you that
Ellen Fisher is raising brain-damaged
babies when unnatural vegan herself is
proudly defending her right to party by
which I mean get high on SSRI
antidepressant drugs despite the very
real evidence that there
just bad for her health they're also bad
for the health of her baby look at this
look at this right here
prenatal SSRI exposure alters neonatal
corticosteroid binding globulin infant
cortisol levels and emerging HPA
function i don't really know what that
means you most likely watching this
video do not really know what that means
imagine if you were donating money for
some kind of highly scientifically
literate youtuber to read and evaluate
this peer-reviewed study and then report
to you the conclusions on brand and on
message let's just blow through here
background methodology results
conclusions here we go here we go i'm
you don't basically a caveman people i
mean you know i read this out of
complete ignorance this is not my
expertise conclusions prenatal SSRI
exposure affects the developing HPA
system by altering serum CBG levels in
neonates and infants infant salivary
cortisol levels further research is
warranted in the long term functional
implications of the effect of prenatal
SSRI exposure on fetal hepatic CPG gene
expression and the developing h pieces
you know what that means you know what
that means I don't know I don't I've got
a whole stack of peer-reviewed studies
here that tell me that pregnant mothers
taking antidepressants is a really bad
idea and you know what I think a lot of
these studies quite intentionally state
their conclusions in a manner that will
avoid terrifying the general public
because they don't want the public to be
Tara let's take a look at a couple more
here that are not at all written in in
layman's term oh this looks this looks
legit no you see the title this is the
thing I love about these types of
articles the title is long enough that
it's like you've read a whole book just
in reading up the title is great
exposure to selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors
during pregnancy and risk of autism
spectrum spectrum disorder in children a
systematic review and meta-analysis of
observational studies now imagine what a
different world will be living in if the
title said taking antidepressants during
pregnancy increases the risk of your
baby having autism imagine if that were
the title you can even just read the
fine print here here on screen for the
abstract and you can figure out that
that is that is what this article is
thinking is it true I don't know not
really not really my field of expertise
but you know I don't think Swasey I
don't think I natural vegan I don't
think she's an expert on nutrition I
don't think she's an expert on exercise
I don't think she's even an expert I
don't think he's been to culinary
college he's an expert how to cook oh
and um I don't think she had any
expertise when she rolled up her sleeves
and decided to prove to us that Splenda
and nutrasweet that artificial
sweeteners weren't so bad for us after
all I don't think she had any expertise
when she boldly decided to prove to us
that um genetically modified crops could
be a healthy addition to her diet
Lisa why doesn't she take this on it's
not just her health that's on the line
it's actually the health of her unborn
child and most likely based on what she
said in her videos the health of the
child she's already got the held she the
health that she'll she gave birth to
recently preterm birth and
antidepressant medication use during
pregnancy a systematic review and
meta-analysis oh now look down there
look look at what's highlighted in
yellow in the results mm-hmm do you do
you know how to interpret an odds ratio
of 1.96 do you know what that means it's
not good it's not good so easy uh I
don't even know is this GRE one or GRE
II I've pursued this is GRE and the Roma
knew well this is not my field this is
not what I study no Mary I'm interested
in anyway um this is a malformation
within the skull and if you look through
here the odds ratio is a bit
all murmuring it's a bit impressive to
to read through this but of course you
know the the the conclusions here are
that you know more research is necessary
we can all we can all agree to that
can't we
oh but here you see this is the real
problem with the world 2018 people what
you and I rely on is not directly
examining peer-reviewed high-end medical
research like this we rely on people
like unnatural vegan Swasey to dumb it
down and interpret it for us we will
rely on people them to digest and reap
resent these findings just like Time
magazine used to do Time magazine
headline taking antidepressants during
pregnancy may lead to fetal brain
changes well you know what that sounds a
lot like those peer-reviewed articles
that was just just looking at but kind
of dumbed down and put into layman's
terms there's a growing and confusing
group of studies looking at the effect
of antidepressants during pregnancy some
research suggests that the drugs are
linked to an increased risk of
miscarriage while others focus on the
implications for the developing baby
including possible birth defects and an
increased risk of autism
okay that's um that's April 9th 2018
that sounds sort of thing that might
interest a natural vegan scientific
skeptic supermom or do you think she's
more interested in heaping scorn on what
the hell was her virgin mango Island
mama and her alternative what's that
Hawaii feeding you know what was it
buckwheat juice and hope we're kids you
know barley okay thank you but barley
milk respeaker you've got to have a
sense of perspective here people you've
got to recognize what our big problems
in this life and what are the problems
that you merely happen to be standing
close to and a natural vegan this is the
same woman who took time out of her day
to make excuses for kal-el and tell us
how we should all support kal-el even
though she buys leather shoes and eats
meat who takes her time out of her day
to tell us what losers an extremist
vegan are vegans are if they're just
real vegans how we should all be more
reduced aryan and an affable and i don't
know how we should make ethical
compromises if you're interested in
taking antidepressants during pregnancy
or if you're a little bit worried about
um please keep watching during my first
pregnancy i had been taking a zoloft 100
milligrams beforehand for anxiety and
depression I took up through the entire
pregnancy not knowing anything about it
I was 21 and I was young and I didn't
really know anything about medicine or
whatever it was before I came a nurse
and I had a healthy baby
I had no pregnancy complications
whatsoever when I had my second child I
thought okay I'm gonna do this right I'm
gonna wean myself off of my zoloft ahead
of time for my second pregnancy I was
like I'm gonna wean myself off my zoloft
with the help of my doctor of course and
so I did that and then I two months
after I was completely off this a lot I
got pregnant and I had horrible
antepartum depression anxiety was
horrible an anti part of me ins during
the pregnancy so my doctor started me
back on my zoloft slowly you know 50
degree degrees 50 milligrams and then
100 milligrams and eventually up to 150
milligrams
I know that some doctors want you to
wean off of it in the third trimester my
situation was a little bit different I
was so depressed and anxious that we
talked about it and we decided that it
was better to stay on it but the
benefits outweighed the risk I feel
comfortable being on it if I get
pregnant again
simply because of the research I've done
I know people personally that I've been
on antidepressants and that's something
that I feel like I'm gonna trust God
with that um you know if I'm gonna get
pregnant and this is where I'm at in
life right now I'm gonna do the best
that I can on my part to
stay mentally healthy emotionally
healthy spiritually and physically
healthy so looking forward and knowing
that we plan to continue to add to our
family means that I need to make an
informed decision on what's best for me
what's best for the care and well-being
of my children my marriage and just the
functioning of my house and if that
means being on a medication because I
need help with my serotonin levels and
that's what it means and I'm gonna just
pray and do everything that I can for
that baby's health and trust that God's
got that baby in the palm of his hands
hmm
antidepressants and pregnancy continued
evidence of harm still no evidence of
benefit now this is a real interesting
study take a look at and you can tell
this is published in a different kind of
Journal ethical human psychology and
psychiatry so this is a little bit
easier for people like you and I to
interpret dear viewer and this is taking
a different type of approach the issue
and saying look it's not just the case
that we need to take seriously the
threats to the mother's health the
impacts on the baby's health we have to
view this in the context of the fact
that the the science indicates that the
benefit from taking antidepressants is
either very very little or absolutely
nil so taking looking at the same
evidence from a different angle in that
context maternal use I'm not running out
of sources I'm actually not using all
the sources of got in this video because
I don't know it that'd be boring
maternal use of selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitors fetal growth and
risk of adverse birth outcomes yeah 2012
SSRIs just like cannabis and tobacco
negatively affected the growth of fetal
head circumference does that sound like
Sling you'd want to you'd want to play
with I there were other articles dealing
with SSRIs even in their impact through
breastfeeding is this thing you want to
make excuses for
swazey because you have you've come on
and you've said the most laughable
shameful debunked pseudo scientific
garbage that comes straight out of
psychiatric advertising campaigns not
science you're still out here promoting
the idea that SSRI drugs cure a chemical
imbalance in the brain that's what
you're doing and guess what the impacts
on your health and the health of your
unborn child are proven to be terrible
this is what you founded your channel
doing right you were supposed to be um
waking us all up shaking us all out of
our slumber shaking us out of our uh now
our doldrums and saying hey wake up
vegans you're all wrong about artificial
sweetener you're all wrong about you
know genetically modified corn you
should you should eat this stuff it's no
problem and yet once we're dealing with
something that maybe maybe cuts a little
bit closer to the bone that maybe cuts
against your own personal convenience
ideology ego all of a sudden I think you
know I think you're you're gussto is
gone your interest in peer-reviewed
scientific sources has just has just
disappeared
exposure to SSRI antidepressants in
utero causes birth defects neonatal
withdrawal symptoms and brain damage
what a headline pregnant mothers should
avoid taking SSRI antidepressants
they're hazardous to the developing
fetus cause withdrawal symptoms in the
newborn baby and induce biochemical and
morphological abnormalities in the brain
here's a Peter Breggin breaking it down
for you this is not I think from a
peer-reviewed journal this is someone
who devoted his life to this area of
research trying to simplify these things
and say it to you in in plain language
I'll have some of this information
appear on screen I don't think it's
gonna help anyone for me to read it out
and I mean maybe that's the most
depressing part of being on the Internet
of all all this research
all of its out there and most of it it's
not just that brilliant minds have gone
into conducting the research in the
first place and publishing them in
peer-reviewed journals
there are also brilliant minds that have
put a lot of hard work into popularizing
these findings people like dr. Irvin
Kershner Road and given lectures and
toured and really explain to the world
on mainstream television and here on
YouTube and in lectures in university
halls and so on and so forth who've
really broken it down and said look
here's the hard science here's the
here's the research here are the
statistics but here's what it means
here's the decision you have to make and
the decision you have to make is quit
taking antidepressants unnatural vegan
Swasey stop lying to yourself stop like
the viewing public stop poisoning your
unborn child stop making the same kind
of excuses that you came here on the
internet in the first place to stand up
and oppose it's pseudoscience baby and
it's killing you even if it feels good
every time you take that pill a virus
yen